Redshift unit test limitation (#5508)
fishtown-analytics/docs.getdbt.com: website/docs/reference/resource-configs/redshift-configs.md

</VersionBlock>

</VersionBlock>

<VersionBlock firstVersion="1.8">

## Unit test limitations

> Unit tests aren't supported on Redshift if the SQL in the common table expression (CTE) contains functions such as `LISTAGG`, `MEDIAN`, `PERCENTILE_CONT`, etc. Those functions must be executed against a user-created table. dbt combines given rows to be part of the CTE, which is unsupported by Redshift. You can try the following SQL:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Redshift doesn't support Unit tests when the SQL in the common table expression (CTE) contains functions such as `LISTAGG`, `MEDIAN`, `PERCENTILE_CONT`, etc. These functions must be executed against a user-created table. dbt combines given rows to be part of the CTE, which Redshift does not support. 

The following query illustrates this limitation:
```

```sql

create temporary table "test_tmpxxxxx" as (
   with test_fixture as (
       select
         cast(1000 as integer) as id,
         cast('menu1' as character varying(500)) as name,
         cast( 1 as integer) as quantity
      union all
      select
         cast(1001 as integer) as id,
         cast('menu2' as character varying(500)) as name,
         cast( 1 as integer) as quantity
      union all
      select
         cast(1003 as integer) as id,
         cast('menu1' as character varying(500)) as name,
         cast( 1 as integer) as quantity
   ),
   agg as (
      SELECT
         LISTAGG(name || ' x ' || quantity, ',') AS option_name_list,
         id
      FROM test_fixture
      GROUP BY id
   )
   select * from agg
);

```

> This results in the error: 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The previous code results in the error: 
```

Author: Could going from "The following query" to the code example, to "the previous code" be a little redundant?

Reviewer: @matthewshaver  how about "This query results in the error:"

Author: Works for me!

```bash

[XX000] ERROR: One or more of the used functions must be applied on at least one user created tables. Examples of user table only functions are LISTAGG, MEDIAN, PERCENTILE_CONT, etc

```

However, the following query works as expected:

```sql

create temporary table "test_tmp1234" as (
   SELECT
      cast(1000 as integer) as id,
      cast('menu1' as character varying(500)) as name,
      cast( 1 as integer) as quantity
   union all
   select
      cast(1001 as integer) as id,
      cast('menu2' as character varying(500)) as name,
      cast( 1 as integer) as quantity
   union all
   select
      cast(1000 as integer) as id,
      cast('menu1' as character varying(500)) as name,
      cast( 1 as integer) as quantity
);

with agg as (
   SELECT
      LISTAGG(name || ' x ' || quantity, ',') AS option_name_list,
      id
   FROM test_tmp1234
   GROUP BY id
)
select * from agg;

```

> If all given rows are created as a temporary table first, then running the test by referring to it will result in a successful run.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When all given rows are created as a temporary table first, then running the test by referring to the temporary tables results in a successful run.
```

> In short, separate the unit tests into two steps:

Reviewer: I feel like these should be moved up to the top of this section so we start with how to do this right.

Author: We do cover these points at the top. Does this work well as a summary, or should we switch the top and the bottom? I think it's beneficial to have it in both places in some fashion

Reviewer: I see your point about keeping the summary so instead I [made some suggestions](https://github.com/dbt-labs/docs.getdbt.com/pull/5508/files#r1601956520) to clear up the content at the top.

</VersionBlock>

</VersionBlock>

<VersionBlock firstVersion="1.8">

## Unit test limitations

> Redshift doesn't support Unit tests when the SQL in the common table expression (CTE) contains functions such as `LISTAGG`, `MEDIAN`, `PERCENTILE_CONT`, etc. These functions must be executed against a user-created table. dbt combines given rows to be part of the CTE, which Redshift does not support. 

Reviewer: @matthewshaver What I like about how the content is [framed below](https://github.com/dbt-labs/docs.getdbt.com/pull/5508/files#diff-5d2cee8c48606c33956458e7b89eacbda29c62349ad49d68ea9380173acda697R339-R343) is that it's clearer than this paragraph and it's framed in the positive. I think we should rewrite this paragraph so we: 
1. Communicate that unit test are limited by actually saying what they need to do to get unblocked.  like "Avoid using SQL in CTE functions such as.." and "Unit tests can be used when you.."
2. Explain how to overcome this limitation. Instead of the passive language of "These functions must be executed..." Use more active language like "Execute these functions against..."

> Redshift doesn't support Unit tests when the SQL in the common table expression (CTE) contains functions such as `LISTAGG`, `MEDIAN`, `PERCENTILE_CONT`, etc. These functions must be executed against a user-created table. dbt combines given rows to be part of the CTE, which Redshift does not support. 

Author: ```suggestion
Redshift doesn't support Unit tests when the SQL in the common table expression (CTE) contains functions such as `LISTAGG`, `MEDIAN`, `PERCENTILE_CONT`, etc. These functions must be executed against a user-created table. dbt combines given rows to be part of the CTE, which Redshift does not support. For unit tests to function properly in this scenario, creating temporary tables for the unit tests to reference is a good workaround. 
```

> The following query illustrates this limitation:

Author: ```suggestion
The following query illustrates the limitation:
```

```sql

create temporary table "test_tmpxxxxx" as (
   with test_fixture as (
       select
         cast(1000 as integer) as id,
         cast('menu1' as character varying(500)) as name,
         cast( 1 as integer) as quantity
      union all
      select
         cast(1001 as integer) as id,
         cast('menu2' as character varying(500)) as name,
         cast( 1 as integer) as quantity
      union all
      select
         cast(1003 as integer) as id,
         cast('menu1' as character varying(500)) as name,
         cast( 1 as integer) as quantity
   ),
   agg as (
      SELECT
         LISTAGG(name || ' x ' || quantity, ',') AS option_name_list,
         id
      FROM test_fixture
      GROUP BY id
   )
   select * from agg
);

```

> This results in the error: 

Author: ```suggestion
This query results in the error: 
```
